# API Changes

## Game Engine API:
Previously, we said that the Game Engine will have 3 API's: `GameEngine`, `GameStateObject`, and `Sprite`. We have added another another API, the `UIActionsProcessor`. By the end of the project a `GameEditingProcessor` will also be added to the Game Engine API. 

In terms of the `Engine` API, previously, we had a `public void processActionRequest(Request request);`. This has been replaced by the method `public UIActionsProcessor getUIActionProcessor()` as to not expose the internals of actions within the game engine. This also moves the responsibility of creating the request to the engine rather than the player, allowing for better encapsulation as the player does not need to worry about how engine Actions/Request objects are created. The `public void ConfigureGame();` method is now subsumed inside the constructor for the engine, as to make sure that there is some game specified when the engine is initialized. As for the `public void createSprite();` and `public void updateSound();`, these are are moved over the the `UIActionsProcessor` as to keep the `Engine` from getting too big. Therefore, a method has been added to the `Engine` API called `getUIActionsProcessor()` that allows the Player to have access to the`UIActionsprocessor`. Other methods added to the game engine API include `List<Sprite> getSpritePrototypesByArchetype(SpriteArchetype spriteArchetype)`, which allows the Player to see all the sprite prototypes defined for a certain archetype, `public String getCurrentLevelBackgroundPath()`, which allows the Player to get the current background, `List<Sprite> getSpritePrototypes()` that returns all the defined prototypes, and `public boolean didLevelSwitch()`, which allows the user to poll for changes in level so they can reload the background and the enemies (this way, Player does not have to re-load these things at every run). 

In terms of the `GameStateObject`, most of the changes to the API are in name; for example, `public int getCurrentScore();` and `public int getCurrentWealth();` has become `public int getResources()` and `public int getLives()`. Since the engine is only concerned with whatever sprite is on the game at a particular time, not what they are, we have combined everything `get` method for onscreen towers, enemies, etc. into one.  

As for the `UIActionsProcessor`, this API provides the following methods: `public void processAddSpriteAction(int prototypeId, double xPos, double yPos)` and `public void processRemoveSpriteAction(int spriteId)`. Later on, this will also allow the user to upgrade the sprite, save game, and load game.  
